Business Requirements Document  OBOOK  14/11/2022 ESMA65-8-10392
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  1   /   23  Document control:  Version   Date   Author   Description  0. 1   19/8/2022   ED   Initial draft  0.2   15/09/2022   ED   Second draft  0.3   27/09/2022   ED   Third draft after ESMA’s comment  1.0   14/11/2022   ED   Detailed description of reported fields removed from BRD. It will be referenced on FSD.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  2   /   23  Distribution List:  Name   Department   Role  Data   Standing Committee   –   DSC   Approve  Markets and Issuers   Task force   Review  ESMA IT team   Resources   Review  ESMA MDP team   MDR   Review
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  3   /   23  Reference documents:  Ref   Title   Version   Author   Date  1   MiFIR - REGULATION (EU) No 600/2014 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 15 May 2014 (Article 25)  600/2014   European Parliament  Council of Europe  15 May 2014  2   RTS 24 - COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2017/580 of 24 June 2016 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the maintenance of relevant data relating to orders in financial instruments  2017/580   European Parliament  Council of Europe  24 June 2016  3   Guidelines - Transaction reporting, order record keeping and clock synchronisation under MiFID II  ESMA/2016/1452   ESMA   07/08/2017  4   ESMA65-8-9196 EAMFT-BRD   1.4   ED/ESMA   23/06/2022
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  4   /   23  Table of Contents  1   Introduction .....................................................................................................................5  1.1   Purpose and audience of this document   ...................................................................5  1.2   Scope   .......................................................................................................................5  1.2.1   In scope ............................................................................................................5  1.2.2   Out of scope   ......................................................................................................5  1.3   Definitions ................................................................................................................6  2   Functional requirements   ..................................................................................................7  2.1   Overview of the project (Business Purpose) .............................................................7  2.2   Overview of the system ............................................................................................8  2.3   Reporting principles..................................................................................................9  2.4   Data Exchange and Data validation..........................................................................9  2.4.1   Data Exchange..................................................................................................9  2.4.2   Data validation and error management............................................................10  3   Non-functional requirements .........................................................................................10  4 Annex I   –   OBOOK Reporting fields   ................................ ................................ ................ 11
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  5   /   23  1   Introduction  1.1   Purpose and audience of this document  1.   The Business Requirements Document (BRD) specifies the business requirements of the IT solution required for National Competent Authorities (NCAs) to exchange data related to orders in financial instruments with other NCAs in accordance with paragraph 34 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012.  2.   The purpose of the Business Requirements Document (BRD) is to be used as an input for the design stages of the Order Book Data Exchange (OBOOK) IT solution. The IT solution will be described in the Functional Specifications Document (FSD).  3.   The current document is being prepared in iterations, each iteration entailing:  a)   content creation,  b)   delivery of a new BRD version to the Task Force/ DSC members  c)   review of the BRD by the TF/ DSC members,  d)   delivery of feedback by the TF/ DSC members  1.2   Scope  1.2.1   In scope  4.   The current BRD scopes at describing all functional and non-functional requirements  for ESMA’s   OBOOK IT solution for enabling NCAs to exchange data related to orders in financial instruments with other NCAs according to the harmonized reporting format defined by ESMA. The exact set of data that is taken as input for designing the XSD is described in Supplementing Regulation (EU) No 2017/580.  1.2.2   Out of scope  5.   Functional or non- functional requirements beyond the scope of ESMA’s   OBOOK IT solution. This solution concerns exclusively the exchange of files between the NCAs  through ESMA’s EAMFT system. No XSD validation, no file content validation and no  file processing will take place. Only the default file level validations of EAMFT will be performed as described in   Data Exchange and Data validation   section.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  6   /   23  1.3   De finitions  Term   Definition  BRD   Business Requirements Document (the present document)  NCA   National Competent Authority designated by each Member State  TV   Trading Venue  ESMA   European Securities and Markets Authority  FSD   Functional Specifications Document  DSC   Data Standing Committee  IT   Information Technology  ITMG   IT Management and Governance group  TF   Markets and Issuers Task Force
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  7   /   23  2   Functional requirements  2.1   Overview of the   project   (Business Purpose)  6.   According to MiFIR Article 25 paragraph 2, operators of TVs shall keep at the disposal of NCAs, for five years, the relevant data relating to all orders in financial instruments that are advertised by their systems. According to the same paragraph  “ ESMA shall perform a facil itation and coordination role in relation to the access by  competent authorities to information under this paragraph ". ESMA was empowered to develop the regulatory technical standards (RTS 24) that describe the process of how TVs should keep data relating to orders in financial instruments that should be provided to NCAs and specify the details of this data. NCAs should receive the order book data in uniform standards and formats.  7.   It is not mandatory for NCAs to participate in this project, however it is strongly recommended to follow the process summarized in the figure below in order to exchange order book data once the aforementioned solution is implemented:  Figure   1 : Order book data exchange overview
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  8   /   23  8.   The following should be noted regarding the above diagram:  9.   The initiation of the order book data exchange process will be done upon NCAs agreement. There is no predefined frequency nor scope for submitting the data and each NCA will establish its own rules/procedures.  10. It is desirable that the submission of order book data between NCA B and Trading  Venues B is done through ESMA’s harmonised reporting format i.e. based on XSD  schema (task #1). ESMA will not convert the files submitted in other formats into the required common schema.  11. The exchange of order book data between NCA A and NCA B should be done  through a file based on XSD schema (task #1) which will be exchanged via ESMA’s  EAMFT system (task #2).  2.2   Overview of the system  12. The OBOOK IT solution will allow NCAs to exchange order book data with other NCAs that are interested in information about orders in financial instruments of TVs that are not under their jurisdiction with files containing the appropriate information in a structured way. The transfer of these file s will be done through ESMA’s system   as described in Figure 1:  Figure   2 : Submission of   order related data by   N CAs   to   N CAs   within the EU  13. The following steps should be applied:  14. NCA A zips the file and places the file in ESMA system  15. ESMA performs preliminary checks  16. ESMA transfers the file to the incoming folder of the recipient NCA B mentioned in the filename.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  9   /   23  2.3   Reporting principles  17. The current section describes the reporting requirements between NCAs as these result from MiFIR and the relationships between the reporting fields.  •   Principle 1: NCAs shall report to each other order book data either upon request or on predefined frequency, upon their agreement.  •   Principle 2: Each file sent by NCAs shall contain:  o   One or more order books  o   Each order book shall contain one or more orders  o   Each order shall contain one or more events, related to this order.  •   Principle 3: Each order identification code must be unique per order book and trading day.  2.4   Data   Exchange   and Data validation  18. The current section defines the reporting system requirements that will be used as an input for the design stages of OBOOK IT solution.  2.4.1   Data Exchange  Req 1.   In case an NCA wants to receive data from a TV that is not under its jurisdiction the data will be requested by the relevant NCA. The NCAs shall establish bilaterally the scope and timeline of the data subject to exchange.  Req 2.   NCAs create their reports on orders in financial instruments in the common format. The file should be uploaded to ESMA system.  Req 3.   The retention period of the files will be stored for a limited period. Following that period ESMA system will delete the file. After that, the files will be permanently deleted from ESMA system.  Req 4.   NCAs will download the files sent by other NCAs through ESMA system, within the aforementioned retention period.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  10   /   23  2.4.2   Data validation and error management  2.4.2.1   File validation rules  Req 5.   The ESMA system will perform the following file level validations for each report on orders in financial instruments:  a.   Check that the sender code matches the sender account  b.   Check whether the file is empty  c.   Check that the file naming convention is respected  d.   Check that the file size is lower than remain disk quota size  19. In case one of the aforementioned validations fails, the file will not be uploaded and EAMFT system will return an error message providing relevant information to the submitter.  2.4.2.2   File naming convention  Req 6.   The sending NCA and the receiving NCA will be included in the name of each file. A detailed description of the file naming convention will be included in the Functional Specifications Document.  3   Non - functional requirements  20. Please refer to [R4- ESMA65-8-9196 EAMFT-BRD] where the non-functional requirements of ESMA system related to the following topics are described in detail:  a.   Security  b.   Availability  c.   Backup and disaster recovery  d.   Ergonomic Requirements
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  11   /   23  4   Annex I   –   OBOOK Reporting fields  OBOOK fields that should be reported, as per   RTS 24 .  Field  Number  Field Name   Field description  Section A   —   Identification of the relevant parties  1   Identification of the entity which submitted the order.  The identity of the member or participant of the trading venue. In case of Direct Electronic Access (DEA) the identity shall be the one of the DEA providers.  2   Direct Electronic Access (DEA).  ‘true’ where the order was submitted to the trading venue  using   DEA   as   defined   in   Article   4(1)(41)   of   Directive 2014/65/EU.  ‘false’ where the order was not submitted to the trading venue  using   DEA   as   defined   in   Article   4(1)(41)   of   Directive 2014/65/EU.  3   Client identification code  Code used to identify the client of the member or participant of the trading venue. In case there is DEA, the code of the DEA user shall be used.  Where the client is a legal entity, the LEI code of the client shall be used.  Where the client is not a legal entity, the {NATIONAL_ID} shall be used.  In case of aggregated orders, the flag AGGR as specified in Article 2(3) of this Regulation.  In case of pending allocations, the flag PNAL as specified in Article 2(2) of this Regulation.  This field shall be left blank only if the member or participant of the trading venue has no client.  4   Investment decision within firm  Code used to identify the person or the algorithm within the member or participant of the trading venue who is responsible for the investment decision in accordance with Article 8 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  12   /   23  Where a natural persons within the member or participant of the trading venue is responsible for the investment decision the person who is responsible or has primary responsibility for the investment decision shall be identified with the {NATIONAL_ID}  Where an algorithm was responsible for the investment decision the field shall be populated as set out in Article 8 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590.  This field shall be left blank when the investment decision was not made by a person or algorithm within the member or participant of the trading venue.  5   Execution within firm   Code used to identify the person or algorithm within the member or participant of the trading venue who is responsible for the execution of the transaction resulting from the order in accordance   with Article 9 of Delegated   Regulation   (EU) 2017/590. Where a natural person is responsible for the execution of the transaction, the person shall be identified by {NATIONAL_ID}  Where an algorithm is responsible for the execution of the transaction, this field shall be populated in accordance with Article 9 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590.  Where more than one person or a combination of persons and   algorithms   are   involved   in   the   execution   of   the transaction, the member or participant or client of the trading venue   shall   determine   the   trader   or   algorithm   primarily responsible   as   specified   in   Article   9(4)   of   Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 and populate this field with the identity of that trader or algorithm  6   Non-executing broker   In accordance with Article 2(d) of RTS24. This field shall be left blank when not relevant.  Section B   —   Trading capacity and liquidity provision  7   Trading capacity   Indicates whether the order   submission results from the member or, participant of the trading venue is carrying out matched principal trading under Article 4(38) of Directive 2014/65/EU or dealing on its own account under Article 4(6) of Directive 2014/65/EU.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  13   /   23  Where the order submission does not result from the member or participant of the trading venue carrying out matched principal trading or dealing on its own account, the field shall indicate that the transaction was carried out under any other capacity.  8   Liquidity provision activity  Indicates whether an order is submitted to a trading venue as part of a market-making strategy pursuant to Articles 17 and 48 of Directive 2014/65/EU or is submitted as part of another activity in accordance with Article 3 of RTS24 Regulation.  Section C   —   Date and time  9   Date and Time   The date and time for each event listed in Section [G] and [K].  Section D   —   Validity period and order restrictions  10   Validity period   Good-For-Day: the order expires at the end of the trading day on which it was entered in the order book  Good-Till-Cancelled: the order will remain active in the order book and be executable until it is actually cancelled.  Good-Till-Time: the order expires at the latest at a pre- determined time within the current trading session.  Good-Till-Date: the order expires at the end of a specified date.  Good-Till-Specified Date and Time: the order expires at a specified date and time.  Good   After   Time:   the   order   is   only   active   after   a   pre- determined time within the current trading session.  Good After Date: the order is only active from the beginning of a pre-determined date  Good After Specified Date and Time: the order is only active from a pre-determined time on a pre-determined date.  Immediate-Or-Cancel: an order which is executed upon its entering into the order book (for the quantity that can be executed) and which does not remain in the order book for the remaining quantity (if any) that has not been executed.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  14   /   23  Fill-Or-Kill: an order which is executed upon its entering into the order book provided that it can be fully filled: in the event the   order   can   only   be   partially   executed,   then   it   is automatically rejected and cannot therefore be executed.  Other: any additional indications that are unique for specific business models, trading platforms or systems.  11   Order restriction   Good For Closing Price Crossing Session: where an order qualifies for the closing price crossing session.  Valid For Auction: the order is only active and can only be executed at auction phases (which can be pre-defined by the member or, participant of the trading venue who submitted the order, e.g. opening and/closing auctions and/or intraday auction).  Valid For Continuous Trading only: the order is only active during continuous trading.  Other: any additional indications that are unique for specific business models, trading platforms or systems.  12   Validity period and time  This refers to the time stamp reflecting the time on which the order becomes active or it is ultimately removed from the order book  Good   for   day:   the   date   of   entry   with   the   timestamp immediately prior to midnight  Good till tim: the date of entry and the time to that specified in the order  Good till date: will be the specified date of expiry with the timestamp immediately prior to midnight  Good till specified date and time: the specified date and time of expiry  Good after time: the date of entry and the specified time at which the order becomes active  Good   after   date:   the   specified   date   with   the timestamp immediately after midnight
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  15   /   23  Good after specified date and time: the specified date and time at which the order becomes active  Good till Cancel: the ultimate date and time the order is automatically removed by market operations  Other: timestamp for any additional validity type.  Section E   —   Priority and sequence number  13   Priority time stamp   T his field shall be updated every time the priority of an order changes  14   Priority size   F or trading venues which use size-time priority, this field shall be populated with a positive number corresponding to the quantity.  This field shall be updated every time the priority of the order changes.  15   Sequence number   Each and every event listed in section G shall be identified using positive integers in ascending order.  The sequence number shall be unique to each type of event; consistent across all events, timestamped by the operator of the trading venue; be persistent for the date that the event occurs.  Section F   —   Identification of the order  16   Segment MIC code   Identification   of   the   trading   venue   where the order   was submitted.  If the trading venue uses segment MICs then the segment MIC shall be used.  If the trading venue does not use segment MICs then the operating MIC shall be used  17   Order book code   T he alphanumerical code established by the trading venue for each and every order book.  18   Financial instrument identification code  Unique and unambiguous identifier of the financial instrument
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  16   /   23  19   Date of receipt   Date of receipt of the original order  20   Order identification code  An alphanumerical code assigned by the operator of the trading venue to the individual order.  Section G   —   Events affecting the order  21   New order, order modification, order cancellation, order rejections, partial or full execution  New order: receipt of a new order by the operator of the trading venue  Triggered: an order which becomes executable or, as the case may be, non-executable upon the realisation of a pre- determined condition.  Replaced by the member or participant of the trading venue: where a member, participant or client of the trading venue decides upon its own initiative to change any characteristic of the order it has previously entered into the order book  Replaced   by   market   operations   (automatic):   where   any characteristic of an order is changed by the trading venue operator's IT systems. This includes where a peg order's or a trailing stop order's current characteristics are changed to reflect how the order is located within the order book.  Replaced by market operations (human intervention): where any characteristic of an order is changed by a trading venue operator's staff. This includes the situation where a member, participant of the trading venue has IT issues and needs its orders to be cancelled urgently.  Change of status at the initiative of the member, participant of   the   trading   venue.   This   includes   activation   and deactivation.  Change of status due to market operations.  Cancelled at the initiative of the member, participant of the trading venue; where a member, participant or client decides upon its own initiative to cancel the order it has previously entered.  Cancelled by market operations. This includes a protection mechanism   provided for investment firms carrying out a
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  17   /   23  market-making activity as laid down in Articles 17 and 48 of Directive 2014/65/EU  Rejected   order:   an   order   received   but   rejected   by   the operator of the trading venue.  Expired order: where the order is removed from the order book upon the end of its validity period.  Partially filled: where the order is not fully executed so that there remains a quantity to be executed.  Filled: where there is no more quantity to be executed.  Section H   —   Type of order  22   Order type   Identifies the type of order submitted to the trading venue as per the trading venue specifications.  23   Order type classification  Classification of the order according to two generic order types. LIMIT order: in the cases where the order is tradable and  STOP order: in the cases where the order becomes tradable only upon the realisation of a pre-determined price event.  Section I   —   Prices  24   Limit price   The maximum price at which a buy order can trade or the minimum price at which a sell order can trade.  The spread price for a strategy order. It can be negative or positive.  This field shall be left blank in case of orders that do not have a limit price or in case of unpriced orders.  In case of a convertible bond, the real price (clean or dirty) used for the order shall be reflected in this field.  25   Additional limit Price   Any other limit price which may apply to the order. This field shall be left blank if not relevant.  26   Stop price   The price that must be reached for the order to become active.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  18   /   23  For stop orders triggered by events independent of the price of the financial instrument, this field shall be populated with a stop price equal to zero.  This field shall be left blank if not relevant.  27   Pegged limit price   The maximum price at which a pegged order to buy can trade or the minimum price at which a pegged order to sell can trade.  This field shall be left blank if not relevant.  28   Transaction price   Traded price of the transaction excluding, where applicable, commission and accrued interest.  In the case of option contracts, it shall be the premium of the derivative contract per underlying or index point.  In the case of spread bets it shall be the reference price of the direct underlying instrument.  For credit default swaps (CDS) it shall be the coupon in basis points.  Where price reported in monetary terms, it shall be provided in the major currency unit.  Where price is not applicable the field shall be populated with  the value ‘NOAP’.  29   Price currency   Currency   in   which   the   trading   price   for   the   financial instrument   related   to   the order   is expressed   (applicable where the price is expressed as monetary value).  30   Currency of leg 2   Where there are multi-currency or cross-currency swaps, the currency of leg 2 shall be the currency in which leg 2 of the contract is denominated.  For swaptions where the underlying swap is multi-currency, the currency of leg 2 shall be the currency in which leg 2 of the swap is denominated.  This field only needs to be filled in where there are interest rates and currency derivatives contracts.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  19   /   23  31   Price notation   Indicates whether the price is expressed in monetary value, in percentage, in yield or in basis points.  Section J   —   Order instructions  32   Buy-sell indicator   To show if the order is to buy or sell.  In case of options and swaptions, the buyer shall be the counterparty that holds the right to exercise the option and the seller shall be the counterparty that sells the option and receives a premium.  In   case of futures   and forwards other than futures and forwards   relating   to   currencies,   the   buyer   shall   be   the counterparty   buying   the   instrument   and   the   seller   the counterparty selling the instrument.  In the case of swaps relating to securities, the buyer shall be the counterparty that gets the risk of price movement of the underlying security and receives the security amount. The seller shall be the counterparty paying the security amount.  In the case of swaps related to interest rates or inflation indices, the buyer shall be the counterparty paying the fixed rate. The seller shall be the counterparty receiving the fixed rate.   In   case   of   basis   swaps   (float-to-float   interest   rate swaps), the buyer shall be the counterparty that pays the spread and the seller the counterparty that receives the spread.  In the case of swaps and forwards related to currencies and of cross currency swaps, the buyer shall be the counterparty receiving   the   currency   which   is   first   when   sorted alphabetically by ISO 4217 standard and the seller shall be the counterparty delivering this currency.  In the case of swaps related to dividends, the buyer shall be the counterparty receiving the equivalent actual dividend payments. The seller is the counterparty paying the dividend and receiving the fixed rate.  In the case of derivative instruments for the transfer of credit risk except options and swaptions, the buyer shall be the counterparty   buying   the   protection.   The   seller   is   the counterparty selling the protection.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  20   /   23  In case of derivative contracts related to commodities or emission allowances, the buyer shall be the counterparty that receives the commodity or emission allowance specified in the report and the seller the counterparty delivering this commodity or emission allowance.  In case of forward rate agreements, the buyer shall be the counterparty   paying   the   fixed   rate   and   the   seller   the counterparty receiving the fixed rate.  For an increase in notional the buyer shall be the same as the   acquirer   of   the   financial   instrument   in   the   original transaction and the seller shall be the same as the disposer of the financial instrument in the original transaction.  For a decrease in notional the buyer shall be the same as the disposer of the financial instrument in the original transaction and the seller shall be the same as the acquirer of the financial instrument in the original transaction.  33   Order status   To   identify   orders   that   are   active/inactive/suspended, firm/indicative (assigned to quotes only)/implicit/rerouted.  Active   —   non-quote orders that are tradable.  Inactive   —   non-quote orders that are not tradable.  Firm/Indicative   —   Assigned to quotes only. Indicative quotes mean that they are visible but cannot be executed. This includes warrants in some trading venue. Firm quotes can be executed.  Implicit   —   Used for strategy orders that are derived from implied in or implied out functionality.  Routed   —   Used for orders that are routed by the trading venue to other venues.  34   Quantity notation   Indicates   whether   the   quantity   reported   is   expressed   in number of units, as a nominal value or as a monetary value.  35   Quantity currency   Currency in which the quantity is expressed.  Field only needs to be populated where the quantity is expressed as a nominal or monetary value.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  21   /   23  36   Initial quantity   The number of units of the financial instrument, or the number of derivative contracts in the order.  The nominal or monetary value of the financial instrument.  For spread bets, the quantity shall be the monetary value wagered per point movement in the underlying   financial instrument.  For an increase or decrease in notional derivative contracts, the number shall reflect the absolute value of the change and shall be expressed as a positive number.  For credit default swaps, the quantity shall be the notional amount for which the protection is acquired or disposed of.  37   Remaining quantity including hidden  T he total quantity that remains in the order book after a partial execution or in the case of any other event affecting the order.  On a partial fill order event, this shall be the total remaining volume after that partial execution. On an order entry this shall equal the initial quantity.  38   Displayed quantity   The quantity that is visible (as opposed to hidden) in the order  39   Traded quantity   Where there is a partial or full execution, this field shall be populated with the executed quantity  40   Minimum Acceptable Quantity (MAQ)  T he minimum acceptable quantity for an order to be filled which   can   consist   of   multiple   partial   executions   and   is normally only for non-persistent order types.  This field shall be left blank if not relevant.  41   Minimum executable size (MES)  The   minimum   execution   size   of   any   individual   potential execution.  This field shall be left blank if not relevant.  42   M ES first execution only  Specifies whether the MES is relevant only for the first execution.  This field can be left blank where field 41 is left blank.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  22   /   23  43   Passive only indicator   Indicates if the order is submitted to the trading venue with a characteristic/flag, such that the order shall not immediately execute against any contra visible orders.  44   Passive or aggressive indicator  On partial fill and fill order events, indicates whether the order was already resting on the order book and providing liquidity (passive) or the order initiated the trade and thus took liquidity (aggressive).  This field shall be left blank if not relevant  45   Self-Execution Prevention  Indicates if the order has been entered with self-execution prevention criteria, so that it would not execute with an order on the opposite side of the book entered by the same member or participant.  46   Strategy Linked Order identification  The alphanumerical code used to link all connected orders that are part of a strategy pursuant to Article 7(2).  47   Routing Strategy   The applicable routing strategy as per the trading venue specification.  This field shall be left blank if not relevant.  48   Trading venue transaction identification code  Alphanumerical code assigned by the trading venue to the transaction pursuant to Article 12 of this Regulation.  The trading venue transaction identification code shall be unique, consistent, and persistent per ISO10383 segment MIC and per trading day. Where the trading venue does not use   segment   MICs,   the   trading   venue   transaction identification code shall be unique, consistent, and persistent per operating MIC per trading day.  The components of the transaction identification code shall not   disclose   the   identity   of   the   counterparties   to   the transaction for which the code is maintained.  Section K   —   Trading phases, indicative auction price and volume  49   Trading phases   T he name of each of the different trading phases during which an order is present in the order book including trading halts, circuit breakers and suspensions.
Date: 14/11/2022 ESMA 65-8-10392  ESMA • CS 60747   –   201   -   203 rue de Bercy   • 75 012   •   Paris   France • Tel.   +33 (0) 1 58 36 43 21 •   www.esma.europa.eu  23   /   23  50   Indicative auction price  The price at which each auction is due to uncross in respect to the financial instrument for which one or more orders have been placed.  51   Indicative auction volume  T he volume (number of units of the financial instrument) that can be executed at the indicative auction price in field 50 if the auction ended at that precise moment of time.
